This is the Code of Conduct that must be followed  

The Guidelines are as follows -   

Be Inclusive: Be open and welcome any ideas regarding the project.  

Equal participation is essential for all members of the group so different perspectives that may be given are all welcome to the group's work. Attempt to come to a consensus when making decisions.  

Respectfully critique the ideas and work, not the people involved; accept constructive criticism where necessary. Respect each team member even if you agree/disagree with their ideas.   

Tasks should be dispersed evenly to ensure that each member receives a fair workload.  

Completing assigned tasks to their best ability although if one cannot, due to any reason, be transparent and discuss with the team members at a suitable time to avoid unpleasant situations.  

Scrum Master (or relevant person) should be aware of any adverse situations and handle them accordingly to avoid unpleasant situations amongst team members:  

Any uncivil scenarios should be dealt with proper care, considering the group's well-being.  

Accept your own faults and mistakes and provide alternate solutions. Accountability should be shown for mistakes and provide an answer without giving up.  

Attend all meetings in-person or online (zoom, teams, skype etc...) so the team can access your work and you can discuss as makes it easier to work.  

Each attendee should contribute to each meeting.  

All communication regarding the project is clear and written (WhatsApp...) to avoid miscommunication. Communication is key when working on a project as a group to avoid and/or act on mistakes. Remember stating your views on a topic is still as important as listening to the views of your fellow team members.  

Where possible appreciate and encourage each other so we can produce a healthy environment for members to work on increasing productivity.  

Show integrity: Make sure your work is your own and to let members know of sources you may have gathered information from through references.  

Come to meetings prepared and on time.  

No discrimination, bullying or insults to be tolerated. Members who participate in discrimination will be put through the warning process (for more information check bottom of guidelines).  

During the meetings, keep conversations work related and professional but light-hearted banter is acceptable.  

If you are unable to attend meetings to communicate beforehand as soon as possible.  

Overall members in the group should:  

Be Respectful, Professional, Civil, Responsible, give Constructive Criticism, openly Communicate and be ready for Constant Improvement.  

Failure to follow the Code of Conduct will result in penalties and eventually suspension.  

We will have a two warning and out system. If a group member fails to complete their task in time and does not inform them of any circumstances preventing them from completing their task, they will get their first warning with a light penalty such as buying the group coffee etc.  

If this continues, the group will be forced to inform the module instructor, so the person will be given their second and severe warning. Any signs of this type of behaviour continuing will result in the member being voted out by the group with a signed letter given to the instructor showing proof of the whole group's decision.

Signed by:
David Kahsay
Linda Osman
Sadia Ali 
Samira Mohamad 
Summer Link 
